While reading the syllabus for this class, there was only one project that I was truly dreading, this coding project. I had one bad coding experience that left me feeling defeated by HTML and CSS. This experience had me feeling slightly intimidated, but once I started coding, I realized that I knew more than I gave myself credit for. When I was sketching out my idea for this project, I started to see the code while I was drawing then once I put it together, I was able to make it better. I would say that I leveled up my approach to this project if you were to compare it to my past computer science project. In the past, I realized on my computer science teacher but this time, I tried to use the tutorials and figure it out myself first. I also leveled up the colors of my website by creating a color palette with coolors.co to create a unified look. I also leveled up the site with the amount of research I did by looking into questions I have had about sustainable living to provide resources to others who may visit this site. I also leveled up my coding skills with flexboxes which were at first very scary but were very helpful for this project. While there were moments of victories, there were times when I got stuck and most of those problems were rectified by looking at the tutorials or identifying where a colon was missing. However, some of the main problems were trying to connect my files and pictures together, putting items in rows, and moving the files to my docs folder. I learned that “/” should not be used to connect files together. I was able to understand how to organize <div> elements into a grid which would then transform the order of them. This was a cool skill to learn, and it helped me better understand the connection between CSS and HTML. Lastly, at the end of my project, I tried moving my files to the docs folder and rename the files accordingly, however, it did not work for me. If I moved the files, I would lose all the design elements of my code.

For the baseline criteria, I focused my efforts on creating a resource filled with information and visually appealing. One thing I was able to learn about is making sure that the colors contrasted enough so it was easy enough to read and therefore more accessible. I had three HTML pages on my site and there was a clear mode of navigation. There was also a CSS style sheet to create an organized visual theme. There were also images on my website with alt text and some of them I created myself including the logo at the top. Throughout this project, I used meaningful commit messages. If I had more time, I would have probably created a background image to use rather than the off-white color. The colors I use are meant to create a natural or organic look thus complementing the site’s information.

I also spent time trying to meet the aspirational criteria. On the web pages, I included two <iframe> YouTube videos on the home page and used grids on the Additional Resources and Living Sustainably pages. I also created my own images including the logo, vines, and did you know fact. All the buttons also use :hover functions on the buttons and links to increase the dynamism on my site. For coding, I used flexbox and grid layouts as well as tried to condense my CSS stylesheet. I also tried to make my website more responsive for different devices and used imported fonts. If I had more time, I probably would have wanted to make a carousel or get a better understanding of javascript. I think this is something I would have liked to include more. I also think I could include pdfs for more information about living sustainably or other resources in general. I wanted to keep the colors the same so using a dark mode wouldn’t be something I was looking for since it would conflict with the theme.

The suggestions I got for my website were also very helpful. Originally, I had some buttons and links that did not have a hover function; however, Garrett suggested changing it and I think it enhanced the site. It also made it more accessible, so people know that the link is different from the other text.

As Patrick suggested, I used different fonts from Google Fonts, and they enhanced the website. It added a more organic look as well as made it more fun. Patrick also suggested organizing my HTML code more which made it easier to read. I really appreciated these comments and they helped me finish my site.

In the end, I was really proud of my site.
